INSTALL.md, before:

# Development on documentation

## tl;dr

**You will need to use following `npm scripts` before creating a pull request!**

1. `npm install`
2. `npm test`

## Features

* Linting of markdown documents
* Spell checking
* Link checking

## Specifications

This repository checks against following specification:

* [Markdown Commonmark](https://spec.commonmark.org/)

### Languages

Supported languages are:

* [English US](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_8859-1)

## Prerequisites

To run all the linters please install for your OS:

* [npm](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions)

## Installation

For linting and all the checks you need several npm packages. The following command installs all necessary npm dependencies:

```shell
npm install
```

This installs all dependencies into a local `node_modules` folder.

## Checks

To enforce good spelling and specification conformity there are several checks defined as `npm run-script` targets. To run all checks please execute:

```shell
npm test
```

### Individual checks

If you want to run individual checks see the targets and the description below.
Every individual check can be run like so:

```shell
npm runscript my-individual-check
```

See the package.json file for help.

#### Markdown linter

Markdown linting. See the rules [here](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint).

```shell
npm run-script markdownlint
```

##### Markdown linter overrides

Sometimes it is not possible to be commonmark conform. In this rare cases an inline tag to skip linting is possible.

Candidates are tables.

```html
<!-- markdownlint-disable-->
| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
|----------|----------|----------|
<!-- markdownlint-enable-->
```

Additionally HTML image tags can be allowed globally. This is useful if you need
to resize images, since commonmark has no annotation for this.

This is done with a .markdownlint.json override file which would look something
like this:

```json
{
    "no-inline-html": {
        "allowed_elements": [
            "img",
            "table"
        ]
    }
}
```

For more information how to tweak overrides consult the markdown linter
documentation mentioned above.

#### Spell checker

##### English

Spell checking in American English (en_US).

```shell
npm run-script spellcheck
```

##### German

Not implemented yet.

##### Spell checker overrides

Add any additional words to the .spelling file and use the target to sort and
clean them before adding these to master.

```shell
npm run-script format-spelling
```

Please note sometimes overriding is not the way to go. Our terminology should be
applied consistently.

#### Link resolver

All cross references and external URLs are resolved.

```shell
npm run-script checklinks
```

#### Inconsiderate language scanner

This checks against profanity and inconsiderate language. This is help full for
non-natives to detect words that could be inconsiderate. This utilizes [alex](https://github.com/get-alex/alex)

```shell
npm run-script detect-inconsiderate-language
```

Commit message:

Update INSTALL.md regarding node and npm version
Make reference to package.json file clearer.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Development on documentation

## tl;dr

**You will need to use following `npm scripts` before creating a pull request!**

1. `npm install`
2. `npm test`

## Features

* Linting of markdown documents
* Spell checking
* Link checking

## Specifications

This repository checks against following specification:

* [Markdown Commonmark](https://spec.commonmark.org/)

### Languages

Supported languages are:

* [English US](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_8859-1)

## Prerequisites

This repository is aligned to the Node.js 14 Maintenance LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (which includes npm). Install the v14 (`lts/fremium`) version of Node.js which is available from [Node.js - Previous Releases](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/) page.

## Installation

For linting and all the checks you need several npm packages. The following command installs all necessary npm dependencies:

```shell
npm install
```

This installs all dependencies into a local `node_modules` folder.

## Checks

To enforce good spelling and specification conformity there are several checks defined as `npm run-script` targets. To run all checks please execute:

```shell
npm test
```

### Individual checks

If you want to run individual checks see the targets and the description below.
Every individual check can be run like so:

```shell
npm runscript my-individual-check
```

See the [package.json](https://github.com/corona-warn-app/cwa-documentation/blob/master/package.json) file for the currently available scripts.

#### Markdown linter

Markdown linting. See the rules [here](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint).

```shell
npm run-script markdownlint
```

##### Markdown linter overrides

Sometimes it is not possible to be commonmark conform. In this rare cases an inline tag to skip linting is possible.

Candidates are tables.

```html
<!-- markdownlint-disable-->
| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
|----------|----------|----------|
<!-- markdownlint-enable-->
```

Additionally HTML image tags can be allowed globally. This is useful if you need
to resize images, since commonmark has no annotation for this.

This is done with a .markdownlint.json override file which would look something
like this:

```json
{
    "no-inline-html": {
        "allowed_elements": [
            "img",
            "table"
        ]
    }
}
```

For more information how to tweak overrides consult the markdown linter
documentation mentioned above.

#### Spell checker

##### English

Spell checking in American English (en_US).

```shell
npm run-script spellcheck
```

##### German

Not implemented yet.

##### Spell checker overrides

Add any additional words to the .spelling file and use the target to sort and
clean them before adding these to master.

```shell
npm run-script format-spelling
```

Please note sometimes overriding is not the way to go. Our terminology should be
applied consistently.

#### Link resolver

All cross references and external URLs are resolved.

```shell
npm run-script checklinks
```

#### Inconsiderate language scanner

This checks against profanity and inconsiderate language. This is help full for
non-natives to detect words that could be inconsiderate. This utilizes [alex](https://github.com/get-alex/alex)

```shell
npm run-script detect-inconsiderate-language
```
